hi i'm chris Roberts crater of Wing
Commander a long time ago and now star
citizen so Chris how have you seen the
game industry evolved since he worked on
games like Wing command Wing Commander
and freelancer Allah so like when I
first worked on Wing Commander the pc i
worked on how the sort of top-end was
640 k but most people had 384 k and i
was doing this new thing called vga
which had 256 colors and 320 x 240 miles
dean gigs has you know millions of
colors and all the rest of stuff so it's
it's a huge change from when i was first
doing it but that's kind of what's fun
about the business it's always something
new every year some new challenge and
how have you seen storytelling improving
games over the years well it's
definitely improved so I mean it was
obviously when I was first doing it was
a lot more primitive because you didn't
have the visual tools to do it was day
love you came out so I've been impressed
I actually think the technology is now
getting to the point where you can
really start to delve into some other
subtleties of storytelling so there's
been some stuff like the Uncharted
series has they've done a really great
job of the start of storytelling mass
effect so I'm looking at coming forward
to come back and bring my own sort of
take on it now you're a pioneer in a
transmedia bring a Wing Commander the
big screen as a director why do you
think so many of you to game adaptations
have failed at the box office well I
mean a couple of things one first up
just because you're a good video game
doesn't necessarily mean that you're a
good story and that I think that's
probably a big big part of it and i
think the video games need to mature him
and even my own stuff Wing Commander
could definitely be sort of more deep
and settled for what you would need for
a film
and I mean asked definitely something
I'm looking to try and sort of push
because I think films are still at the
infancy I mean games are still the
infancy so I would say that the game
business is kind of equivalent at the
film business in the 1910s 1920s and you
know we've got a ways to go but we'll
definitely get there I fully believe
that the game industry or the
interactive industry is going to be so
the primary form of sort of
entertainment for the 21st century and
are you developing start assistant
started as a potential transmedia
franchise not I'm not specifically no so
I mean I'm what I'm more concerned about
is creating a really cool immersive
world that people can go into year after
year and we constantly updated and
constantly telling new stories and
letting the players tell their own
stories and and sort of become immersed
and involved in it and if some other
stuff happens you know we're going to do
a novella based on some of the short
stories were doing we have a very
talented writer called David haddock
that's doing that and we'll expand our
writing team so I'm not going to rule
out the fact that it could go there but
that's not it's not like it was designed
to be transmedia I mean I'm primarily
focused on building a really great
interactive world and how did your time
in the game industry help prepare you
for Hollywood well a little bit but not
I mean you know Hollywood's very
different I mean first of all the game
industry is quite nice compared to
Hollywood Hollywood's full of sharks so
but I you know I did the thing that you
do in the game industry is that you
definitely have to juggle a lot of balls
and you've got to sort of be aware of
the different sort of technical
challenges and directing a team is kind
of the same as directing a movie so the
actual aspects of the creative side of
filmmaking I would say there's a lot of
game making the translates across other
than just the pressures much higher in
the film business because you shoot in a
very short period of time so you'll
shoot a movie in three months four
months whereas a game you'll make over
several years and so you've got time to
make decisions and you have to be really
prepared in the film business the
business side of film isn't particularly
great so I would say the game business
side as much nice
the film business ID but i would say on
the creative side there are some there's
definitely similarities i would just say
like i said that film they've been
learning how to you know get a whole
bunch of creative people together to you
know achieve one vision for longer than
people will be doing the game business
so they sort of got a little bit more of
that down as a as a sort of craft or a
system but you know i think people go
between them and i think you'll see
people shift between is certainly on the
artists side on the music and the sound
side already you're seeing it i mean the
same artists that do big movies are
doing games and say musicians same
composers same you know sound effects
people and so you'll see fair amount of
that because in really out in reality in
movies you're basically creating a world
you know a will to sort of escape into
and you're doing kind of a lot of that
in games as well